feat!: v2: deterministic CAR, composable pinning (#53)
ipfs/ipfs-deploy-action: docs/recipes/filecoin-pin.md

Author: @BigLet @SgtPoki @rvagg this is stub based on #49 and #51, feedback welcome.

Reviewer: @lidel : ack. Your move for docs/recipe only makes sense for your maintenance burden.

I think at this point I'd just move this recipe in filecoin-pin repo itself so we are self-service to update it. 

ipfs-deploy-action can then just point to it. 

@rvagg: what do you think? Does that sound good to you?

Reviewer: We are going to add a recipe showing how to use the filecoin-pin cli within a github action as part of: https://github.com/filecoin-project/filecoin-pin/issues/524

I'll update here when we have that.

No worries though if you want to proceed with the other items that aren't in flux (filebase, pinata) so you can land this PR without waiting on us.

Author: Thanks, this is in now. With the upstream CLI recipe live (filecoin-project/filecoin-pin#530), I trimmed (https://github.com/ipshipyard/ipfs-deploy-action/pull/53/changes/cbd38a20580b8501bc7124581407105ecd4dd28e) our `docs/recipes/filecoin-pin.md` to just the `ipfs-deploy-action` wiring (feeding `car-path` into `filecoin-pin import`) and point at your recipe as the source of truth for wallet setup, spend caps, version pinning, network, and egress.

# Archive CAR to Filecoin via `filecoin-pin`

> [`filecoin-pin`](https://github.com/filecoin-project/filecoin-pin) uploads a CAR to Filecoin Onchain Cloud (Synapse) over PDP, topping up USDFC from a wallet when needed. This recipe feeds it the CAR that `ipfs-deploy-action` produces: `filecoin-pin import` archives that exact CAR and preserves its root CID end-to-end.

Reviewer 2: meta: I try and avoid fronting "CAR" to user docs, it's too internal-detail, just "IPFS content" work would in place of most of the mentions of "CAR". Up to you though.

`filecoin-pin import` is for CAR, but normal usage hides CAR as an internal detail; so it's not really _designed_ to upload a CAR, it just happens to use CAR as a bundle format for your IPFSified content.

The upstream [CLI recipe](https://github.com/filecoin-project/filecoin-pin/tree/master/upload-action/examples/cli-recipe) is the source of truth for running the CLI in CI: wallet setup, spend caps, version pinning, network selection, and egress. This page covers only the wiring specific to `ipfs-deploy-action`.

## Prerequisites

> - A Filecoin wallet private key in a repository secret (e.g. `FILECOIN_WALLET_KEY`). The wallet must hold FIL for gas and either USDFC or FIL that `--auto-fund` converts to USDFC.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- A Filecoin wallet private key in a repository secret (e.g. `FILECOIN_WALLET_KEY`). The wallet must hold USDFC for funding storage details. See the [Filecoin Onchain Cloud documentation](https://docs.filecoin.cloud/resources/additional-resources/#getting-usdfc-tokens) for more information about USDFC.
```

shouldn't need FIL in most cases that this touches

    CAR_PATH: ${{ steps.deploy.outputs.car-path }}
  run: |
    npx -y filecoin-pin@0.20.1 import "$CAR_PATH" \
      --mainnet \
      --auto-fund \
      --min-runway-days 30 \
      --max-balance 5.0
```

The CAR path comes from `steps.deploy.outputs.car-path`. The root CID is available as `steps.deploy.outputs.cid` if your follow-up steps need it. Add Kubo or IPFS Cluster inputs to the deploy step if you also want to pin to your own infrastructure; see the [main README](https://github.com/ipshipyard/ipfs-deploy-action/blob/main/README.md#native-pinning-providers-optional).

## Notes

- **Gate this step yourself.** It spends wallet funds, so decide where it is allowed to run before adding it. Common gates: only on `push` to your default branch, only when same-repo (skip fork PRs), or only inside the secrets-bearing half of a dual workflow. The action does not gate for you so you stay in control.
- Pin the CLI version (`filecoin-pin@0.20.1` here) so a future upstream release does not change behavior under your CI without a code review.
- Use `--calibnet` instead of `--mainnet` for testnet runs.

## Upstream references

- CLI: https://github.com/filecoin-project/filecoin-pin

> - Flag reference for `--auto-fund`, `--min-runway-days`, `--max-balance`: see the [`filecoin-pin` README](https://github.com/filecoin-project/filecoin-pin#cli).

Author: @rvagg what is a good permalink for CLI docs?

I think the readme one is brittle, e.g. it needs to be fixed already due to emoji:

```suggestion
- Flag reference for `--auto-fund`, `--min-runway-days`, `--max-balance`: see the [`filecoin-pin` README](https://github.com/filecoin-project/filecoin-pin#-cli).
```

Your readme links  to https://docs.filecoin.io/builder-cookbook/filecoin-pin/filecoin-pin-cli but its 404 atm.

Reviewer: Arg - I have pr to update: https://github.com/filecoin-project/filecoin-pin/pull/484

There is https://docs.filecoin.io/builder-cookbook/filecoin-pin/getting-started, but I think just driving to https://github.com/filecoin-project/filecoin-pin is fine.
